>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
move on to the next section.
We're gonna talk about history index.
We have all seen a commit message
that looks something like that.
I love xkcds, so you guys get more comics.
[LAUGH] Your commit messages
might start out strong.
And eventually, they just end up
saying things like more code, or
here, have code.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This isn't great,
and we've all tried to debug something and
we come across a commit message,
and all it says is fix bug,
and you're like, what bug?
I'm trying to track it down, I'm trying
to troubleshoot whoever committed
this code change, has just completely
screwed me over, at this point.
It makes us want to just curse
the person who did that,
maybe stick some voodoo pins at them,
plot your revenge.
All it would take is a few
extra descriptive words, and
it could have saved us hours of work.
And the effect of bad commit messages,
really ended up compounding
over the lifetime of a project.
I like to think of it,
kind of as the broken windows theory.
If you commit with bad commit messages,
then other developers will think that's
okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Good commits
are really, really important.
They preserve the history of a code base.
They can help you with debugging,
troubleshooting,
if you need to create release notes,
if you wanna know what
went into version 2.0 of your project,
you can pull up your commits and
answer that question easily,
if your commit messages are good.
It helps with code reviews.
If I'm code reviewing large poll request,
I'll actually go through and
look at the diffs of each individual
commit, so that I can see how the code had
changed over time, instead of
looking at one giant poll request.
It helps with rolling back, if you have
a fire in production, and you need
to roll back, while your commit messages
will tell you where you need to be.
They also help with associating code
with an external ticket tracker,
or a GitHub issue.
We, unfortunately use GEO at work,
so I usually put the GEO ticket
number in my commit message.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If you use GitHub,
I'm gonna show you guys how to link to
issues within your commensurator in
the course, and they're actually be
a nice clickable link in GitHub.
So an anatomy of a good commit message.
Unfortunately, I see a lot of people
commit with git commit-m all the time.
And that's fine if your commits are brief,
if your codes not doing a lot.
But sometimes your commit encapsulates a
really complicated idea, and in that case,
the one line commit message
is really not enough.
What you wanna do is add a descriptive
body to your commit message after
a new line.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Git is going to
truncate that message,
I think it's 69 characters by default.
If you try to look at the commits
on GitHub, it'll be dot,
dot, dot, after 69 characters.
It's better to just keep them short, so
that people aren't kept guessing.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
if you're commit message is
already longer than 69 characters,
it probably deserves a commit
message description at this point.
For that one line description, the commit
message should be in the future tense,
meaning fix, instead of fixed.
This short subject, the blank line.
And lastly, a description.
The description should be context.
Don't explain how you did something.
Don't say you moved file A to B.
We can figure that out
by looking at commit.
The interesting information here,
is how you did something.
The code will describe what you did.
You should describe how you did it,
describe the current behavior, give
a short summary of why the fix is needed.
Mention any side effects of your code.
And this description should be
broken into 72 character lines for
best formatting.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Good commits
are important.
They have good commit messages.
They should generally
encapsulate one logical idea.
They shouldn't introduce any breaking
changes, so when you commit,
your test should pass.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It
shouldn't leave your
code in a broken state.